[KOGITO-8353] Introduce Camel Routes integration guide (#269)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/core/custom-functions-support.adoc

====

[[con-func-sysout]]

> == Sysout Custom Function

Reviewer: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.
```suggestion
== Sysout custom function
```

====

[[con-func-java]]

> == Java Custom Function

Reviewer: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.

```suggestion
== Java custom function
```

Avoid using `java` functions to call the external services, instead, you can use the xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc[services orchestration features].
====

== Camel custom function

Kogito supports the link:{camel_url}[Camel Routes] functions within an Apache Maven project, in which you define your workflow service.

> [TIP]

Reviewer 2: TIP or NOTE ?

====
NOTE: This section briefly exemplifies how to define and use Camel Routes within your workflow application. For more information, see the xref:integrations/camel-routes-integration.adoc[Integrating with Camel Routes].
====

=== Function definition

The following example shows the declaration of a Camel function:

[source,json]
----
{
  "functions": [
    {
      "name": "myCamelEndpoint", <1>
      "type": "custom",  <2>
      "operation": "camel:direct:myendpoint" <3>
    }
  ]
}
----

<1> `myCamelEndpoint` is the function name
<2> `custom` is the function type

> <3> `camel:direct:myendpoint` is the custom operation definition. In this definition, `camel` is the reserved keyword followed by the `direct` endpoint. link:{camel_extensions_url}/direct.html[Camel Direct] is the only supported consumer by {context}. Finally, `myendpoint` is the endpoint URI name found in the route within your project's context.

Reviewer 2: same here, we should point to a camel supported components table IMO

Author: We don't need this table since this is the only component supported, and I don't see any other producer to be supported. If so, we can then create a table.

Reviewer 2: ok

Avoid using `java` functions to call the external services, instead, you can use the xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc[services orchestration features].
====

> == Camel Custom Function

Reviewer: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.

```suggestion
== Camel custom function
```

Kogito supports the link:{camel_url}[Camel Routes] functions within an Apache Maven project, in which you define your workflow service.

[TIP]
====

> This section brefly exemplify how to define and use Camel Routes within your workflow application. For a more in-depth guide, please see the xref:integrations/camel-routes-integration.adoc[Integrating with Camel Routes].

Reviewer: Instead of TIP, we can convert it into a NOTE.
```suggestion
NOTE: This section briefly exemplifies how to define and use Camel Routes within your workflow application. For more information, see the xref:integrations/camel-routes-integration.adoc[Integrating with Camel Routes].
```

====

> === Function Definition

Reviewer: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.

```suggestion
=== Function definition
```

The following example shows the declaration of a Camel function:

[source,json]
----
{
  "functions": [
    {
      "name": "myCamelEndpoint", <1>
      "type": "custom",  <2>
      "operation": "camel:direct:myendpoint" <3>
    }
  ]
}
----

<1> `myCamelEndpoint` is the function name
<2> `custom` is the function type
<3> `camel:direct:myendpoint` is the custom operation definition. In this definition, `camel` is the reserved keyword followed by the `direct` endpoint. link:{camel_extensions_url}/direct.html[Camel Direct] is the only supported consumer by {context}. Finally, `myendpoint` is the endpoint URI name found in the route within your project's context.

> === Function Arguments

Reviewer: We can use a lowercase style here to avoid capitalization.
```suggestion
=== Function arguments
```

> The Camel function arguments must follow a specific structure when passing data from the workflow state to the route. The only attributes supported in the function arguments are `body` and `headers`. Both are optional if you need to call the Camel routes without arguments. The only constraint is that you can't call a Camel route with only `headers`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camel function arguments must follow a specific structure when passing data from the workflow state to the route. The `body` and `headers` are the only attributes supported in the function arguments. Both are optional if you need to call the Camel routes without arguments. The only constraint is that you can not call a Camel route with only `headers`.
```

> Following the examples of valid arguments structures for Camel function arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples display valid argument structures for Camel function arguments:
```

.Example calling a Camel route using `body` and `headers`
[source,json]
----
{
  "functionRef": {
    "refName": "myCamelEndpoint",
    "arguments": {
      "body": "${ .my.body.data }", <1>
      "headers": { <2>
        "key1": "${ .my.value }",
        "key2": "${ .my.other.value }"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

<1> `jq` expression filtering the state data for the `body` argument.
<2> JSON key/value pair for the `headers` argument. A `jq` expression returning the same JSON object is also valid.

.Example calling a Camel route using `body`
[source,json]
----
{
  "functionRef": {
    "refName": "myCamelEndpoint",
    "arguments": {
      "body": "${ .my.body.data }"
    }
  }
}
----

.Example calling a Camel route without arguments
[source,json]
----
{
  "functionRef": {
    "refName": "myCamelEndpoint"
  }
}
----

.Example calling a Camel route with only one argument
[source,json]
----
{
  "functionRef": {
    "refName": "myCamelEndpoint",
    "arguments": "${ .my.body.data }"
  }
}
----

In this last example, the `jq` expression result is used as the `body` argument in a way to simplify the definition.

=== Function return values

> The Camel route is reponsible to produce the return value in a way that the workflow can understand. That following are considered valid objects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camel route is responsible to produce the return value in a way that the workflow can understand. The following are considered valid objects:
```

include::../../pages/_common-content/camel-valid-responses.adoc[]

> == Custom Function Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Custom function types
```
